There's one other thing that I want to
talk about and that is the python REPL.
What is a REPL?
REPL stands for read evaluate print loop.
This is an interactive Python
prompt where you can type
in Python programs line by line and
see results right away.
There are lots and
lots of benefits to using a REPL.
By seeing this instantaneous output,
you get instantaneous feedback,
which is exactly what you
need when you're learning.
You want to fail fast and
fail often make mistakes experiment.
There's really not much
that you can break.
So, take full advantage of the REPL for
the first few chapters.
We're going to be working
exclusively in the REPL and
I asked that you type along with me.
Now, the downside to the REPL
is you eventually will
want to store your Python code for reuse.
And that's what Python files are for
and Python programs,
you can consider the REPL
more of a scratch area.
So it's where you can experiment and
play and try out Python code.
If you want to save the output of
your REPL, you can just copy and
paste that into a file, which I recommend
doing if you want to go back and
look at what you were working on.
The REPL isn't just a tool for beginners.
As a Python programmer.
I use it all the time.
If I can't remember what a method does or
what the return value of something is.
I pop up a REPL and
I can quickly answer that question for
myself without having to Google or
redox or whatever.
So it's not just something
that beginners used.
It's going to be a tool that
you'll have in your toolkit for
the rest of your Python career.
Now you'll know that you're in a REPL.
When you see three arrow lines,
those are gonna indicate that a line
of input was given at the prompt.
If you see three arrows in the example
code throughout the course,
don't copy them into your own REPL.
He built in copy function on this course
website should take care of that for you.
Now, comments can start
with the pound sign, and
comments will be ignored in the REPL,
both if they are on a new line,
or if they follow a line of code.
So you might see me add in some
comments for some context, as I type.
And then lines that don't start
with either of those things or,
a dot means that it was output produced
by running input from the prompt.
So let's try this out.
If you want to open the ripple.
On your terminal without VS code, as long
as your virtual environment is activated,
you can type Python and
it will bring it up for you.
And you should see these three arrows and
a blinking prompt letting you know
that Python is ready for input.
On Mac and Linux systems, you can exit
out of this by hitting Ctrl D on Windows.
I think it's slightly different.
I don't remember the command offhand, but
I'm pretty sure the ruffle prints it out.
Either way on Linux or Windows
systems if you don't remember how to.
With this REPL you can just type exit as
a function, and that will exit it for you.
If you don't want to remember
the keyboard shortcuts.
Now, in VS code, we can just pull up
the REPL from the command palette and
have it in our integrated terminal.
So to do that Ctrl Shift p for
Windows Command Shift p for Mac.
Then Python, start REPL and that will
bring up the REPL right in VS code for me.
Now we can start typing some Python
code and seeing what happens.
We can type a number and see that
the output is just printed out.
We can assign a variable.
So in this case,
I'm gonna assign the number five to X.
You'll see here that
nothing was printed out.
That's because an assignment was made and.
Nothing was returned from that assignment.
So in the ripple, if you want to
see the value of what's an X now,
you can just type X by itself and
you'll see that output again.
Once we move to files, and we don't
have these handy features of the ripple,
you're going to need to use the print.
Function in order to see any output.
We're going to talk a lot
more about printing later.
But for the time being, you can just
pass a variable to the print function,
or you can pass in a string
that is delineated with quotes.
And in the REPL, that'll do the same
thing as just typing the variable
So now you should be all set up to work on
the rest of the exercises in this course.
There's a bit of a checklist.
If you're missing a step, I recommend
that you go back in the break and
make sure that you're all set up.
You need to have Python 3.9 installed.
You need to have the vs code
extensionist installed.
You need to have the Python extension for
vs code installed.
You need to have made
a PI workshop directory
in your home folder and navigated to it.
Created a virtual environment.
Activated that virtual environment and
open VS code in your project directory.
If you have that, if you have code on
your path, you can just navigate to
a directory where you have a virtual
environment opened and type code dot.
That will open VS code in
this project directory.
It should pick up the virtual
environment automatically but
you'll still want to double check.
If you don't have that
installed on your path.
That's okay.
You can just launch VS code and
navigate to the project directory.
It's not a prerequisite for the course,
it's just a handy shortcut.
And there are some steps where you can go
ahead and check that you have everything.
Once you're done with setup, go ahead and
open the ripple either in VS code or,
on the terminal and
that will set you up for the next chapter.
And somebody mentioned that in
Windows to exit the REPL Ctrl Z works.
So yes, that is the keyboard shortcut.
Somebody's in chats that they keep
getting Python 3.8 point six.
That means that they might have
an older version of Python installed.
If that is the case, and they went
through the steps to install Python 3.9.
They might be able to create
their virtual environment or
check with the version with
another more specific command.
So here in my project folder,
I'm going to type deactivate and
that will deactivate the virtual
environment that I had activated.
I am instead of typing this,
I don't want any of you to deactivate
your virtual environments.
I'm just going to open a new window.
And you'll see here that in my new window,
I don't have a virtual environment.
So if you have an older
version of Python three.
You should have a Python 3.9 command.
I believe in Windows, it's pi 3.9.
And that will let you
target the more specific
version of Python three on your system.
>> There was one other suggestion
of potentially using a REPL.
If all else fails.
Was that a good option or not,
like got online Python owner?
>> No, because if you want to run
Python programs on your system,
you wanna make sure
that you're all set up.
For the person in chat who's
on Python 3.8, that's okay,
it's a modern enough version of Python 3
that, they shouldn't be too far behind.
And I'm not going to cover any Python
3.9 specific features in class today,
but they do want to get their
environments dialed in.
Unfortunately, I'll chat
about this in a little bit.
Versioning and
Python is something that has.
There's some history there.
And it's not the easiest thing to do,
I imagine that that's where the history of
virtual environments came from originally
is to solve some of these problems.
So it is possible to have multiple
versions of Python on your machine.
And you wanna make sure that you're
using the right one for your project.